---
comments: true
date: 2014-11-21 16:10:00
layout: post
slug: digest-10
title: Scalac Weekly Digest#10
summary: Collection of interesting links from around of web chosen for you by Scalac team
author: Scalac Team
tags:
- Scalac Weekly Digest
- Security
- Working
- DevOps
- Scala
- Distributes Programming
---

Hi folks! 

Welcome to the tenth edition of Scalac Weekly Digest. We all hope you enjoy it so far. This week we discovered some iteresting articles about Scala and distributed programming, web performance, operations and work organization. It covers many various topics and we're sure you will enjoy it as much as we did. See you next week! 

* \[Working\] [Working Remote](http://blog.driftt.com/what-if-your-team-was-working-remote)

Oren Ellenbogen desribes in his blog post how companies could benefit from working remote. He debunks the myth that working away from the office leads to poor performance of employees.   

* \[DevOps\] [Unikernels and immutable infrastructure](https://medium.com/@darrenrush/after-docker-unikernels-and-immutable-infrastructure-93d5a91c849e)

The link above will lead you to a very intersting article about how the field of DevOps has changed since Doker was developed. It also describes its shortcomings and ideas that might help to mitigate them. One the intriguing emerging trends in this field are unikernels and immutable infrastructure.  

* \[Scala\] [High-performance microservices for Scala](https://tumblr.github.io/colossus/)

Tublr released an open-source library for creating lightweight, high-preformance microservices in Scala. At Scalac we wonder if and how Colossus can fit into the current technology landscape. It's definitely worth to keep an eye on this framework.

* \[Distributes Programming\] [Field Guide to the Distributed Development Stack ](http://sites.oreilly.com/odewahn/dds-field-guide/ch01.html)

An very informative ebook describing distributed programming. Both when it comes to working in a distributed team and on a distributed product. The book is written mostly by O'Reilly but also, what is quite intersting, is open to outside contributions. We would love to see more initiatives like these.  

* \[Scala\] [Play - anatomy of web framework](https://jto.github.io/articles/play_anatomy_part1_bootstrap/)

Julien Tournay describes in his blog posts the internal architecture of Play framework. Since Play is the default web framework for Scala you will probably use it sonner or later and it's always beneficial to understand the tools you are using. 

* \[Security\] [Https vs web performance](http://moz.com/blog/enabling-https-without-sacrificing-web-performance)

A detailed post analyzing the impact of encryption of web performance. Explains the topic in depth.  
